Q. What do you understand by the term SQL ?

  -SQL stands for Structured Query Language .
  -It uses tables in the form of rows and columns to store data .
  -SQL is a standard language for storing, manipulating and retrieving data in databases .
  -SQL lets you access and manipulate databases .

SQL is not like other coding languages we learnt so far, it is a database management system. 
It uses queries to make, delete or performing anything on databases and tables. 

In SQL tables are also known as relations.
Rows are often called as tuples and columns are called as attributes.

SQL is a non-case sensitive language .
SQL is a data definition and data manipulation language .
Data store, data retrive, data manipulate . - Relational data .
Which means whether you are writing the syntax in capital or small doesn't matter. 
But the names of tables or columns you need to take care of, whatever way you are writing at first write in that form only.
The characters and varchar should be written inside single-colon or double-colon.

It is really fun to learn new things when you understand those.

Datatypes of the inputs in the tables contains char( which wastes the unused memory of the defined size), varchar (which uses memory as needed), int , float , double, boolean, date, year .
This also contains signed( negative or ppositive) , unsigned (only positive and increased range)

 Types of SQL commands:
  DDL: Create, alter, drop
  DQL: select
  DML: insert, update, delete

Columns are said to be keys:
  1. Primary key (uniquely identify each row, NOT NULL)
  2. Foreign key (Refers to the primary key of another table)
    -It is the same column name as it is on one table .

Constraints:
    NOT NULL - cannot have null value.
    UNIQUE - all columns are different.
    PRIMARY KEY - unique and not null but used only for one.

if we are defining composite primary key their combination would be unique and not null. Any one column may have same value combination would not be same.

Foreign keys are used to establish and maintain relationships between tables and to ensure data integrity.
Cascading for FK:
  On delete cascade: If we are deleting from the parent table then it will delete from the child table also.
  on update cascade: If we are updating in the parent table then in the child table also it will be updated.
        -- Cascading are written after the declaration of foreign key.

Default : sets the default value of a column.
          ( salary INT DEFAULT 25000 ) it will set the default value if nothing has been entered .

Distinct : It will remove the duplicate values from the column.

Clauses :
    WHERE : condition 
        - operators used with where clause are arithmatic , comparision and logical . With where we often use Between, in, and not in operators to compare.
    LIMIT : sets an upper limit on number of tuples(rows) to be returned.
    ORDER BY : To sort in ascending (ASC) by default or decending (DESC) order.
    GROUP BY : Group rows that have the same values into summary rows.
    HAVING : Used when we want to apply any condition after grouping.

SQL is base of Relational algebra.
Relational algebra has some basic operations:
  Projection (We use it at the last of all)- Works on columns.
  Selection -Works on Rows.
  Cross Product
  Union * (Set theory use[*])
  Rename
  Set difference *
Derived operations:
  Join (Important)
  Intersect *
  Division

Aggregate Functions:- Aggregate functions perform a calculation on a set of values, and return a single value.
  COUNT()
  MAX()
  MIN()
  SUM()
  AVG()

General Order for writing query:
SELECT column(s)
FROM table_name
WHERE condition     --where applies on rows
GROUP BY column(s)
HAVING condition     --having applies on groups
ORDER BY column(s) ASC;

Table related queries:
  UPDATE : To update an existing row.
  DELETE : To delete an existing row.
  ALTER : To change the schema[design(columns,datatypes,constraints)].
    - ADD COLUMN (to add columns)
    - DROP COLUMN (to drop a column)
    - RENAME TO (to rename the table)
    - CHANGE COLUMN (to change a column name and type)
    - MODIFY (to modify the previous column datatype or constraint)
  TRUNCATE : To delete table's data , the table will remain. 
  DROP : To delete the whole table.



Joins in sql: Join is used to combine rows from two or more tables, based on a related column between them. To collect common element details from them.
